[Blog] In-depth: Posthog vs Fathom (#9836)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-fathom.mdx

These include [product analytics](/product-analytics), [session replay](/session-replay), [surveys](/surveys), [experiments](/experiments), [feature flags](/feature-flags), a [data warehouse](/data-warehouse), and more.

### 2. PostHog has a generous free tier

PostHog's ["ridiculously cheap" tier](/pricing) includes all of our features for free with an allowance of 1M events per month. For Fathom, pricing starts at $15 per month for 100K data points, increases to $60 per month for 1M data points, and more from there.

Beyond PostHog's free tier, we try to be as cheap as possible and [transparent](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs). Want to know how much we'll charge? See our [pricing calculator](/pricing#calculator). PostHog also does not require a credit card to sign up and try the free tier.

## Web analytics

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_dashboard_light_bc76a94566.png"
  imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_dashboard_dark_42ac39a5f7.png"
  classes="rounded"
  alt="PostHog web analytics dashboard"
/>

> ![Fathom Analytics dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/fathom_analytics_dashboard_195049b289.png)

Reviewer: This is a lot of screenshots to have all at once, maybe move them below the table with some context on why you are including them? For example:

"In terms of design, both PostHog and Fathom's web analytics dashboards look similar..."

(PostHog screenshot)

"The big difference is that PostHog includes sessions where Fathom only includes visitors"

(Fathom screenshot)

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Bounce rate" description="See the percentage of users that leave after one pageview" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Entry and exit paths" description="See the pages users first visit and the last ones before they leave" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Outbound clicks" description="See the links that take users away" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="UTM tracking" description="Track marketing campaigns with UTM tags" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Cookieless tracking" description="Track users without cookies" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Snippet install" description="Install HTML snippet" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Migration" description="Migrate data from Google Analytics" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={"50.6 kb"} column2={"<2 kB"} feature="Script size" description="Size of the script that runs on your site" />
</ComparisonTable>

## Product analytics

> Teams rely on [product analytics](/product-analytics) when they need more customization in both capturing and analyzing data. Although not a focus of Fathom, it does have offer some basic product analytics features with event tracking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teams rely on [product analytics](/product-analytics) when they need more customization in both capturing and analyzing data. Although not a focus of Fathom, it does have offer some basic product analytics features like custom event tracking, but doesn't include any of the custom visualizations of PostHog.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Surveys" description="Collect and analyze feedback, run NPS and PMF surveys" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Feature flags" description="Roll out features safely, toggle features for cohorts or individuals" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Server-side SDKs" description="Capture events and use features from Python, Node, and more" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Mobile SDKs" description="Capture events and use features from Android, iOS, and more" />
</ComparisonTable>

## Integrations

<ComparisonTable column1="PostHog" column2="Fathom">
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="CSV exports" description="Export your data as a CSV" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Email" description="Send reports to email" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Warehouse exports" description="Export data to warehouses like S3 and BigQuery for storage and analysis" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Data warehouse" description="Query customer and product data together" />
>   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Warehouse import" description="Import data from third-party sources like Postgres, S3, and GCS" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Warehouse import" description="Import and query data from third-party sources like Postgres, S3, and GCS" />
```

>   <ComparisonRow column1="Events, reports" column2={false} feature="Slack" description="Send events, reports, and anomalies to Slack" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Slack" description="Send events and reports to Slack" />
```

---
title: "In-depth: PostHog vs Fathom"

> date: 2024-11-11

Reviewer: If you set the date in the future, we can't see the article in the preview. You can change it back once you publish.
```suggestion
date: 2024-11-08
```

author:
 - bijan-boustani
rootpage: /blog
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_vs_fathom_analytics_e327b58767.jpg
featuredImageType: full
category: General
tags:
  - Comparisons
---

import { ComparisonTable } from 'components/ComparisonTable'
import { ComparisonHeader } from 'components/ComparisonTable/header'
import { ComparisonRow } from 'components/ComparisonTable/row'

> PostHog and Fathom Analtyics both provide alternatives to Google Analytics. In fact, both explicitly mention it with marketing copy like "Switch to a better Google Analytics alternative."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog and Fathom Analytics are both alternatives to Google Analytics. In fact, both explicitly call this out on their websites with marketing copy like "Switch to a better Google Analytics alternative."
```

> Both products feature web analytics dashboards with an emphasis on simplicity and privacy. They're ideal choices for customers that want to analyze and understand web traffic but find Google Analytics to be needlessly complicated.

Reviewer: Feature is kind of a weird word because we use it in so many other contexts. 
```suggestion
Both products have web analytics dashboards with an emphasis on simplicity and privacy. They're ideal choices for customers that want to analyze and understand web traffic but find Google Analytics to be too complicated.
```

> But what makes them different?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## How is PostHog different?

### 1. PostHog offers web analytics, and a lot more

[Web analytics](/web-analytics) is a core feature of PostHog, but we offer many more tools to help you analyze, test, and observe your site and your product.

These include [product analytics](/product-analytics), [session replay](/session-replay), [surveys](/surveys), [experiments](/experiments), [feature flags](/feature-flags), a [data warehouse](/data-warehouse), and more.

### 2. PostHog has a generous free tier

> PostHog's ["ridiculously cheap" tier](/pricing) includes all of the features of PostHog for free with an allowance of 1M events per month. For Fathom, the pricing for up to 1M data points is $60 per month or 100K data points for $15 per month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog's ["ridiculously cheap" tier](/pricing) includes all of our features for free with an allowance of 1M events per month. For Fathom, pricing starts at $15 per month for 100K data points, increases to $60 per month for 1M data points, and more from there.
```

> Beyond PostHog's free tier, we try to be as cheap as possible and [transparent](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs). Want to know how much we'll charge? See our [pricing calculator](/pricing#calculator).
> 
> PostHog also does not require a credit card to sign up and try the free tier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beyond PostHog's free tier, we try to be as cheap as possible and [transparent](/docs/billing/estimating-usage-costs). Want to know how much we'll charge? See our [pricing calculator](/pricing#calculator). PostHog also does not require a credit card to sign up and try the free tier.
```

> ### Is Fathom simpler than PostHog?

Reviewer: I see what you're trying to do here, but this doesn't really go under the section: "How is PostHog different?" 

If someone didn't know much about either (or just knew Fathom), they wouldn't immediately assume PostHog was more complicated.

Author: Yeah that's a good point.

This was originally under the FAQ at the bottom, but I was thinking readers would benefit from seeing screenshots somewhere earlier in the post (especially since the similarities are pretty obvious when we look at the dashboards).

But you're right it doesn't fit too well here. I'll take a look at a change now. I wonder if it's partly just this heading that seems out of place.

Although PostHog has more features than Fathom, it isn't necessarily more complicated.

If you look at the web analytics dashboard for both products, they're pretty similar in appearance and the data provided:

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_dashboard_light_bc76a94566.png"
  imageDark="https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/web_analytics_dashboard_dark_42ac39a5f7.png"
  classes="rounded"
  alt="PostHog web analytics dashboard"
/>

![Fathom Analytics dashboard](https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/fathom_analytics_dashboard_195049b289.png)

## Web analytics

Both Fathom and PostHog are [Google Analytics alternatives](/blog/ga4-alternatives), so they're ideal for tracking and analyzing your website.

<ComparisonTable column1="PostHog" column2="Fathom">
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Pageviews" description="Track visitors and their views" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Sessions" description="Track unique sessions and their durations" />

Reviewer: Looking again, does Fathom have sessions? They have visitors, but it seems if a visitor visits more than once it doesn't count as a new session. 

![CleanShot 2024-11-08 at 14 21 48@2x](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/37a39c95-ee6b-41b0-882d-6c577b79e7f4)

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Traffic breakdown" description="See where your visitors and conversions are coming from" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Conversions" description="Track actions you want users to take" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Bounce rate" description="See the percentage of users that leave after one pageview" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Entry and exit paths" description="See the pages users first visit and the last ones before they leave" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Outbound clicks" description="See the links that take users away" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="UTM tracking" description="Track marketing campaigns with UTM tags" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Cookieless tracking" description="Track users without cookies" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Snippet install" description="Install HTML snippet" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Migration" description="Migrate data from Google Analytics" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1={"50.6 kb"} column2={"~1 kB"} feature="Script size" description="Size of the script that runs on your site" />

Reviewer: Slightly bigger: https://usefathom.com/features/vs-google-analytics
```suggestion
  <ComparisonRow column1={"50.6 kb"} column2={"<2 kB"} feature="Script size" description="Size of the script that runs on your site" />
```

</ComparisonTable>

## Product analytics

> Teams rely on [product analytics](/product-analytics) when they need more customization in both capturing and analyzing date. Although not a focus of Fathom, it does have offer some basic product analytics features with event tracking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teams rely on [product analytics](/product-analytics) when they need more customization in both capturing and analyzing data. Although not a focus of Fathom, it does have offer some basic product analytics features with event tracking.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Cohorts" description="Combine users based on properties and events for group analysis" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="User profiles" description="View user demographic data such as country, language, and device type" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Group analytics" description="Track metrics at a company and account level" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Paths" description="Track user flows and where they drop off" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="SQL" description="Query your data with SQL" />
</ComparisonTable>

## Platform

Beyond web analytics is where PostHog really shines. We provide all of the tools developers need to build a successful product (and they all work together).

<ComparisonTable column1="PostHog" column2="Fathom">
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="EU hosting" description="Access and store your data in the EU" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="API" description="Capture events, get stats, and make changes via API" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1="Invite teammates to collaborate for all features" column2="Share web analytics with or without a password" feature="Collaboration" description="Share your projects and sites with teammates" />

Reviewer: Lets make sure this one looks good in the preview

Author: Seems like it looks alright. But I'm open to changes if there's some better way to communicate this.

Fathom basically allows dashboards to be private (default), public, or password protected ([source](https://usefathom.com/docs/features/shared-dashboards)).

<img width="788" alt="preview" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e2cfbca0-ed8d-4d70-a50c-fc2cf15bc832">

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Data warehouse" description="Query customer and product data together" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Warehouse import" description="Import data from third-party sources like Postgres, S3, and GCS" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Events, reports" column2="Reports, anomalies" feature="Slack" description="Send events, reports, and anomalies to Slack" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Stripe" description="Import charges, customers, invoices, subscriptions, and more" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="HubSpot" description="Import contacts, companies, deals, and more" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Zapier" description="Trigger Zapier automations" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Zendesk" description="Import organizations, tickets, users, and more" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Sentry" description="Send and receive error data with Sentry" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="WordPress" description="Send and receive error data with Sentry" />

Reviewer: Although we can install on Wordpress, I wouldn't say we have an integration. Maybe with changing + adding a note?
```suggestion
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="WordPress" description="Easily capture data from your Wordpress site" />
```

<ComparisonTable column1="PostHog" column2="Fathom">
  <ComparisonRow column1="7 years" column2="Forever (as long as you're a customer)" feature="Data retention" description="The length of time event data is retained" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Bot blocking" description="Block scrapers, crawlers, and other unwanted traffic from stats" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Reverse proxy" description="Avoid tracking blockers and capture more data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="HIPAA-ready" description="Can be compliant with HIPAA" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="GDPR-ready" description="Can be compliant with GDPR" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="SOC 2" description="SOC 2 security certification" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="2FA" description="Enforce login with two-factor authentication" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Enterprise" column2={false} feature="SAML/SSO" description="Use SAML or single sign-on authentication" />
</ComparisonTable>

## Frequently asked questions

### How much do PostHog and Fathom cost?

> Fathom is a monthly subscription based on usage. Plans start at $15 per month for 100k data points. The pricing for up to 1M data points is $60 per month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fathom is a monthly subscription based on usage. Plans start at $15 per month for 100k data points. 1M data points is $60 per month. Price maxes out at $470 per month for 25M data points, beyond which you need to contact them.
```
